regardless of your experience or
expertise with google ads the one thing
that you'll probably already know is
that google ads is based on keyword
targeting this is why so much focus is
placed on completing your keyword
research the correct way and why some
people are prepared to pay upwards of
120 a month for expensive third-party
tools but what if i was to tell you that
you don't need those expensive tools
because in my opinion they're just a big
waste of money these expensive
third-party tools are a big waste of
money because there is a simple
three-step process that you can use for
your keyword research and by using these
three steps to complete your keyword
research your campaigns are going to be
a lot more successful and ultimately
generate a lot more money my name is
aaron young and i'm your 15 000 google
ads master and in this video i'm going
to take you through the three simple
steps that you need in order to complete
your keyword research for google ads
when you're completing your google ads
keyword research it's important to
remember that you're only looking for
trends so you're looking for the trends
of what search terms have the most
traffic what search terms have the most
competition do any of those terms have
recent changing trends in that they've
become more popular or they haven't been
searched as much over the last couple of
months and then finally what is the
average cost per click so when you're
completing your google ads keyword
research don't get caught up on exact
figures as you need to remember that all
of the data that you're seeing is just
reporting on past data trends and that
this data can actually change by the
time you press go on your campaign have
a little think about it imagine you've
done your keyword research and then
you've finally launched your google ads
campaign and on the same day that you
launch your google ads campaign a large
multinational company starts a new
campaign in your niche targeting the
same search terms as your campaign but
they're using a six figure a month
budget so all of the exact figures and
the exact data that you spent so much
time researching has now changed and
that's why i say we only need to focus
on the trends so when you're doing your
google ads keyword research don't over
complicate it remember we're only
looking for two core things firstly we
want to confirm which keywords we
actually want to use and then secondly
we want to break all those search terms
down into individual ad groups which
only have a single keyword theme in each
ad group and we'll talk a little bit
more about that later in the video now
this actually might surprise you but the
very first step in completing your
google ads keyword research actually
doesn't even start in google ads and
that's because the first important step
in completing your google ads keyword
research is just to open up a google doc
or your notes and just start writing
down the search terms that you would use
if you were doing a google search for
your very own product or service and the
reason for this is simple if they are
the search terms that you would be using
in google it's also very very likely
that they are the same search terms that
your potential customers would use when
they're looking for your product or your
service so for example if you're a
branding and a printing company and you
wanted to market your services that you
offered for business cards car wraps and
signage you would start this process by
first typing in the core services that
you wanted to market so in this case
we're doing business cards car wraps and
then signage and then under each of
these individual product terms you would
start writing in the individual search
terms that you would use if you were
searching for these products so for
example you'd write business card
printing get business cards for my
businesses or just simply business cards
and then you can see here we've added in
some extra search terms for car wraps
such as business car apps vehicle
branding car wraps and car signage and
then we've also done the same for
signage where we've put in terms such as
outdoor signage signage from our office
and business signage now this doesn't
have to be an exhaustive list of every
single possible term that you could use
all you're looking at doing here is
putting down three or four different
keyword ideas that we want to explore
when we go to the google keyword planner
and the reason for why i like this
strategy is that you have to remember
that the whole purpose of google ads is
to match search terms from real people
then matching them to the most relevant
ads and the most relevant landing pages
so it makes sense that rather than going
to a third-party algorithm or a
third-party tool or even the google ads
keyword planner is that we're starting
this process typing down some real-life
search terms that we would use and that
our customers would use to find our
products so by having this as your first
step you're setting up your campaign for
success right from the very start have
you got questions about google ads great
because i have the answers my channel is
100 focused on google ads and google ads
only and the reason for that is because
google ads has been my sole focus for
the last 12 years and it's why i can
call myself a 15 000 hour google ads
master so while i may not be able to
answer your question on how you can get
rich on the internet quick what i can
definitely do is answer any question
that you have in regards to google ads
so why don't you use my knowledge and
get your question answered today all you
need to do is to quickly subscribe to
this channel and then leave your
question in the comment section below
and then i'll come back and answer the
question for you it's time for the next
point now that we have our initial
keyword ideas written in a google doc we
want to go into the google ads keyword
planner and confirm the best keywords to
use and also look for other potential
keywords so when we're in google ads we
want to go into tools and settings and
then go into a keyword planner and then
from there we're going to discover new
keywords and then once we get into this
screen we want to go back into our
google doc and then we want to copy our
keyword ideas for our first product
which in this case is business cards and
then we simply want to paste it back
into the google ads keyword planner and
then click get results and then from
here google will start giving us the
data so what we can do is we can go
through and actually select the keywords
that we entered in and you can see for
this third one get business cards from
my business there was actually no search
volume so we don't need to select that
one and then we want to keep scrolling
down and going through the keyword ideas
when we're looking at these keyword
ideas which are recommendations which
google is giving us off the initial
keywords that we entered in we want to
go through and have a look at the
average monthly searches which gives us
an estimated monthly volume for the
searches over the past 12 months and
then we also want to look at this
competition which is broken into three
different levels low medium high and it
speaks to how much competition is on
each of these search terms and then
these final two columns look at the
estimated bids the difference between
the two is that the low range is talking
about positions three and four and the
high range is looking at positions one
and two and that's why this high range
is a little bit more expensive than the
low range because we're paying more to
get higher up the positions in google
ads so for me to be able to make these
decisions i'm looking at a couple of
things i'm firstly making sure that this
keyword idea is actually relevant to
what we're looking at so we can see for
this one where it says free business
cards and obviously because we're
running a business and we're not wanting
to give these away for free we won't
select this option and then the other
option that we are looking at is we are
looking at is not only is this
competition too high but if the
competition is high and then also the
top of page bit is too high we can leave
that out of our campaign so it's just a
matter of going down and we go we like
this one which is business cards near me
custom business cards order business
cards business card printing near me and
then we can keep going down the full
selection as far as we want to go and
once we are happy with our selection of
keywords what we need to do is we need
to go through and add a new keyword
group and then we'll write business
cards then we create that group and then
from there we want to make sure that we
press this add keywords and then you can
see from here that these keywords are
now in our plan and then from there we
want to go back into our google doc and
repeat the process for our next keyword
theme going through and selecting the
keywords that we want to add in and then
once again we want to go through and
this time we want to create a new ad
group where we're writing car wraps we
create that and then add keywords now to
save time i've actually gone through and
already copied and added in the final
thing that we wanted to go through which
was signage i've selected the keywords
that i wanted to use and i'll just
create one more ad group
and i'll add those keywords once you
have the correct keywords for your
google ads campaign it's also really
important that you know exactly what you
need to optimize and when you need to
optimize and that's why i want to give
you my free google ads optimization
checklist and this is a checklist which
will take you through what you need to
optimize in google ads every 72 hours
every week every month and every 90 days
to get your free checklist today all you
need to do is follow the link in the
description below alrighty let's get
into the next point and now we have just
one final step which is step three and
that's where we're going to go through
and group all of our keyword themes
together so that they're all sitting in
ad groups that only have one keyword
theme now the reason for why i'm showing
you these steps and showing you this
method of breaking down your keywords
into an individual keyword theme is so
that we can make sure that we're using
the best current strategy for google ads
which is making sure that we're matching
individual ad copies and landing pages
for individual search terms and at the
end of this video i'll share a link with
you where you can see this strategy in
more in depth the good news is that
we've already done a lot of the hard
work in breaking our keywords into
different themes because we added in
those extra ad groups when we're adding
our keywords but what we want to go to
now is we want to go to our forecast and
instead of clicking on this big blue
create campaign button what we actually
want to do is we want to go to this
download option and we want to download
our plan forecasts into a csv file now
you could use the google sheet option
but the reason for why i prefer to
download it to a csv file is i just find
the editing tools a little bit simpler
in csv so here we have our csv file now
we'll just do a really quick tidy up of
the columns now you can see here that
i've gone through and deleted a lot of
the columns and the rows because the
information that we really want to see
is the ad groups the keywords and then
just the related data to each individual
keyword now even though this is a good
start we do want to go through and break
these keywords into further keyword
themes so as you can see through here
for this initial signage ad group you
can actually see there there are some
very clear different themes that we can
go through and add so for this first one
we could actually go through and add the
word business
and the next one we could go through and
add custom
and then we could actually add another
one for outdoor and then for this other
one we could actually put signage
company
and then for this last keyword on a
further look i'm actually now deciding
that this keyword is actually too broad
so i'm going to remove that keyword and
just work on these four main keyword
themes of business signage custom signs
outdoor signage and sign company near me
and then we'll go through and complete
it for the business cards and also the
car wraps and now i've gone through the
business cards theme and as you can see
here we actually added in another
keyword theme and another ad group which
was business card printing which matches
in these keywords of business card
printing and also business card printing
near me but then when we go down to our
initial car apps ad group you can
actually see we've now actually broken
that out into five individual ad groups
and keyword themes of car branding car
signage car wraps vehicle branding and
then finally vehicle wraps and now we've
finished our keyword research and
actually already broken them into highly
targeted keyword ad groups and now from
those three main keyword themes of
business cards car wraps and signage
we've actually got 14 different targeted
keyword themes that are all sitting
within their own ad group so that's the
simple three-step process of how you can
complete your google ads keyword
research and create highly targeted ad
groups that's going to set your campaign
up for success without using expensive
third-party tools also before you go
make sure you follow the link in the
description to get your free google ads
optimization checklist so you know what
you need to optimize in your google ads
campaign every week every month and
every 90 days plus finally if you want
to build on this targeted keyword
research and add it into a full google
ads strategy why don't you go through
and check out this link or if you want
to watch the more step-by-step google
ads tutorials including how to write
your own google ads copy and how to set
up your google ads campaign why don't
you go through and watch this link i
look forward to seeing you on our next
video